# Robovision Advice - the good , the bad and the ugly

This document will serve as a summation of the Robovision project from the second half of 2020. There are other documents on the project that go into details of error correction, full project plan, requirements setup and so on. Here we will outline what the goal was, what went wrong. why it went wrong and what the student team has to advise for future reference so that our client as well as Fontys can have a better understanding of what to avoid.

## The Goal

To summarize the point of the project - Green Tech Labs wanted to get a group of students to develop a somewhat basic robot system that takes a relatively affordable depth and RGB camera(as opposed to cameras that would cost within the range of 20,000 euros and more), a fairly robust but standard robot arm and 2 boxes filled with various objects. Getting a camera to detect objects and automating a robot arm aren't new things, but the most core part of the project was to have all of this done on ROS(Robot Operating System). GTL wanted a proof of concept that the(at the time, quite increasing in popularity) ROS environment would be inexpensive and robust enough to make it a major part of robot-systems development. And of course, the entire project to be heavily documented and saved so that GTL could continue work off of it freely.

## The Problems

Keeping these goals in mind, let's get to the first major issue with this project - it's scope and the context it was in. The project was doomed to have slowdown issues from the beginning. It was a very comprehensive and complicated robotics task that was handed off to a team of 5 students, only one of which had even any remote experience with what ROS is. Combining this with the fact that, as of this being written, there are no Software Engineering subjects in regards to robot programming or ROS at Fontys Venlo, the students of the team were grossly underprepared in terms of training to handle such a large and complex task. Without hammering on the same point - this problem keeps showing up throughout the entirety of the project. While as a learning experience, it's a wonderful opportunity for those who would want to try out ROS and robots for the first time in a controlled environment, as a project that a client wants to see results on - it was a poor decision.

Another significant issue that the project faced was to do with logistical problems. It took somewhere between 1 to 2 months for the depth cameras to arrive and become available to the development team. This resulted in a lot of wasted time that could have been spent exercising and testing the camera setup from much earlier. Additionally to this, there is something to be said about time allocation for the SOFA project altogether. Having half a day on Monday, half a day on Wednesday and a full day on Friday results in a lot of gaps and awkward stops to the work flow.

There was also the issue of under-equipped students. Doing work that would involve fairly heavy training of object recognition models is generally something that works out poorly on sub-par hardware. As a general rule, it can't really be expected to have the average student lugging around a very powerful GPU for a variety of reasons. While perhaps not terrible on a smaller scale, if this project would have gone smoothly and the team in question would have gotten to training a very serious and robust object recognition model, without any available support from the college or client, it could easily have ended at a stalemate where students simply lacked the hardware to make this work. This point can vary wildly, depending entirely on the object recognition algorithm in question and size of data, but it certainly was a problem and something to be mindful of in the future.

The major concentration of problems arose mostly from the under-trained students however - without training and knowledge on the topic of robotics and ROS, this resulted in a lot of bugs, version mismatches and general errors that the team had to stumble through, document and correct. While not a massive problem in terms of a learning and getting experience, it should be noted that this is to be completely expected - and that a lot of time will be lost to learning how to work on a project, rather than working on the project. In this context at least.

Last but not least, an honourable mention goes out to the Corona virus - without which the year of 2020 could have gone much more smoothly. While of course not something that can really be directly addressed easily, it is worth noting that it contributed to the problem - with lessons from home, eventual lockdowns, etc. etc. It was not a fun time.

## The Solutions

The recommended things to do will be listed below as a comprehensive little list:

- The project should have had a much smaller and focused goal that a completely green team could have focused on. In the case of what this was - it should have just been learning how to hook up the depth camera and having it recognize objects. Alongside with learning ROS, this would have been a much more achievable goal for everyone involved. The robot arm is not included because it is deemed much too complex for someone with not training in robotics or ROS to tackle in such a short time-span. Which leads to the next point.
- Perhaps a reworking of the SOFA schedule overall would be beneficial. Having 2 or even 3 full days dedicated to working on a project like this, in succession, on campus with access to equipment and teachers would have likely produced much more stimulating results. In cases like this one, perhaps even more time dedicated to the SOFA and pay should be considered. Since the SOFA is real work for real clients of Fontys, it's perhaps wise to consider that the more professionally students are treated and the more professionally they are equipped - more professional results and standards can be expected. 
- Having all necessary equipment available from day 1 of the project. This would avoid any unnecessary waiting time.
- In more extreme cases like this, having maybe an introduction session to ROS by a qualified professional could help speed things up by a massive degree. Having someone fully educated in the topic to give the basics, point to good starting literature, dos and don'ts - that sort of thing. It can save a lot of time and expedite the process altogether.
- It is worth considering for GTL/Fontys to setup a server with some powerful GPUs that would allow students to train heavy object recognition models on dedicated hardware, for cases where students lack their own processing power. This is quite doable, and providing such a service would completely resolve the hardware issues faced in a programming challenge like this.
- Last but not least, anyone who continues this project would do well to make full use of the documentation provided by this team and to very carefully document every step along their own work way. Documentation is very crucial in most projects, especially of this nature.

## Conclusion

The project, overall - had a lot of problems. A lot of mismanaged time, Corona, lack of preparation, etc. But a lot was learned. Everyone got something out of it and the team has a lot of ideas on how to improve such a project for future reference. It should be quite possible, for next time, to repeat this same type of project but much much more efficiently. Hopefully the next team will benefit from this insight.